Robotic Process Automation  Basics
Contents:

● Graphical User Interface (GUI)
● Recorder
● Self-learning Bots
● Possible Activities of Self-Learning Bots
● Types of RPA - Attended, Unattended, Hybrid
● ROI: Building a Business Case
● ROI for RPA
● Velocity
● Productivity
● Implementing RPA in Your Enterprise
● Key Drivers of RPA in Enterprise
● Steps to Enterprise RPA
● List of Robotic Process Automation Tools
● and Selection Checklist
● Comparing RPA Tools
● Understanding RPA Vendors
● RPA Case Study
Graphical User Interface (GUI) :
A GUI (graphical user interface) is a system of interactive visual
components for computer software. A GUI displays objects that convey
information, and represent actions that can be taken by the user. The
objects change color, size, or visibility when the user interacts with them.
GUI is an interface that allows users to interact with different electronic
devices using icons and other visual indicators. The graphical user
interfaces were created because command line interfaces were quite
complicated and it was difficult to learn all the commands in it.
GUI objects include icons,  cursors and buttons. These graphical elements
are sometimes enhanced with sounds, or visual effects like transparency.
The below diagram provides the position of the graphical user interface
with respect to the computer system −

2) Recorder :What a process recorder in RPA does is to follow the steps that a user
performs and translates them into an automation-ready workflow designed to
replicate those actions.

Recorder In Automation Anywhere:
Use the Screen Recorder to record a task or series of actions on your
computer.
To record a task or a series of actions on your computer, use the Screen

Recorder when:

● Building simple tasks for processes that involve mouse clicks and
keyboard operations.
● You plan to run the automated process (the recorded task) on the
same computer on which it was recorded. This ensures that the
screen display coordinates are the same as they were when the task
was recorded.

Hi, there are mainly 3 types of recorders in Automation Anywhere:
1. Screen Recorder:​ It is most suitable for desktop applications.The
Screen Recorder or the other Standard Recorder provides the easiest
way to create a simple automation process. It is usually used when
the task involves many ​mouse clicks and ​keyboard operations ​
2. Smart Recorder:​ Suitable for both Web and Desktop applications.
The Smart Recorder or the Object Recorder is the most ​feasible
method for building tasks. It is ideal for desktop applications andcaptures objects such as drop-down menus, list boxes, radio buttons,
check boxes and mouse clicks.
3. Web Recorder:​ Used only for Web applications. The Web-Recorder
is used to perform tasks that require repetitive actions such as
Extracting data from multiple web pages, Extracting data from tables
on the web pages or Filling web forms.
4. Task Editor:​ The task editor is used to process any command with
the help of several commands. This editor allows you to open multiple
tasks by editing them simultaneously. The task editor has
components such as Commands panel, Task Actions List, Action
Buttons, Error View and Variable Manager Panel, Filters.

Recording in UiPath:​About the differences and similarities between the
types of recorders:

○ Basic​ – generates a full selector for each activity and no
container, the resulting workflow is slower than one that uses
containers and is suitable for single activities.
○ Desktop​ – suitable for all types of desktop apps and multiple
actions; it is faster than the Basic recorder, and generates a
container (with the selector of the top level window) in which
activities are enclosed, and partial selectors for each activity.
○ Web​ – designed for recording in web apps and browsers
(supported: Internet Explorer, Google Chrome), generates
containers and uses the ​Simulate Type/Click ​input method by
default.
○ Citrix​ – used to record virtualized environments (VNC, virtual
machines, Citrix, etc.) or SAP, permits only image, text and
keyboard automation, and requires explicit positioning.
Self-learning Bots :

What Is Artificial Intelligence?
Artificial intelligence​ (AI) refers to the simulation of human ​intelligence​ in
machines that are programmed to think like humans and mimic their actions.
The term may also be applied to any machine that exhibits traits associated
with a human mind such as learning and problem-solving.

Technologies like ​Robotic Process Automation (RPA)​ include intelligent
automation using real-time self-learning techniques like predictive analytics
and cognitive computing. It encompasses Artificial intelligence, machine
learning and speech recognition, thereby creating what can be called as
self-learning bots. The breakthrough technology is expected to simplify and
digitize major business processes, and also increase self-learning capabilities.

How Does a Bot Work?

A cognitive bot learns by observing people at work. It is achieved by
constantly and repeatedly analyzing the processes, corrections and
transactions of the employer by the bot. The bot thus gains the knowledge to
process the incoming data by thinking and performing the suitable action,
getting smarter and becoming more accurate over time. It automatically
extracts the data needed for decision making and continuously learns from the
employer’s feedback. It uses NLP, ML, knowledge representation, reasoning,
massive parallel computation and Rapid Domain Adaptation.

Advantages of Bots :● Bots increase productivity
● Produce accurate and high-quality results
● Rarely makes mistakes and are reliable
● Work 24 hours without fatigue and breaks
● A greater quantity of work in lesser time

4) Possible Activities of Self-Learning Bots :

To create a self-learning bot, one should go beyond basic AI and progress into
Machine Learning. Machine Learning uses algorithms to process incoming
data, learn about it, and then determine what to do with it. After Machine
Learning, the next step is to move into Deep Learning (DL), a more advanced
version of Machine Learning. Deep Learning breaks down the language in
ways that make ‘human-level’ chatbot conversation seem possible. In this
phase, neural networks come into the act and use it to progressively conclude
on a single probability of accuracy. As an example, the final output of a neural
net might be: “This input is 90% likely to be a support request”.

Image: 1, for manual process and Image: 2, for RPA Process.Types of RPA - Attended, Unattended, Hybrid :

What is RPA?

Robotic Process Automation (RPA) is an application software with (AI)
artificial intelligence and machine learning capabilities to manage
high-volume, repeatable tasks that earlier required humans to perform.

RPA is not a one-size-fits-all solution. In fact, currently there are three forms
of RPA:  Attended, Unattended and a new hybrid.

i) Attended RPA :

Attended automation is like having your own personal coach. The robot
works alongside you, the human worker, offering processing assistance. An
employee can have the robot "show me" how to do a task or process, or
ask the robot to "do it for me."

For example, you may want new hires to leverage the "show me" option as
they learn a new process. But once they understand how it works, they
could have the robot do the process step for them.

Such steps might include:

● Cross-application data population
● Data gathering from multiple sources● Conducting a preliminary analysis of data and presenting the
employee with insights for better decision making.

Attended automations can also prevent employees from performing tasks,
such as approving loans above their authorization credentials.

ii)​  Unattended RPA : ​
Robots run unattended in virtual environments and can automate any
number of processes. On top of the Attended Robot capabilities, the
Orchestrator is responsible for remote execution, monitoring, scheduling
and providing support for work queues.

iii) ​Hybrid RPA :
Hybrid automation combines attended and unattended RPA and enables
the passing of work to robots automatically or by employee prompt,
allowing the robot and employee to work on different tasks simultaneously.
This ability to move work back and forth between the robots and employee
works especially well for processes that have:

● Both structured and unstructured data
● Key "decisioning" touch points
● Multiple variations or outcomes.

The knowledge worker is needed to make judgment calls based on the
context and data available. They can also use creative thinking to identify
new, innovative ways of working.

ROI: Building a Business Case And ROI for RPA :Robotic Process Automation, or RPA, is autonomous software programmed to
follow rule-based tasks just as a human would. The difference is that robotic
decision making and outcomes are predictable, consistent, and 100 percent
accurate.
Companies exploring RPA find it difficult to establish ROI because traditional
measures often do not justify the deployment cost, according to Institute for
Robotic Process Automation and Artificial Intelligence Program Director
Christopher Surdak. While the organization estimates RPA deployments bring
20 percent to 25 percent cost savings, on average, there’s more to measure
than the just the financial impact

Here are four metrics to measure the full ROI of an RPA deployment:
Velocity —​ Measure the start time versus stop time of a back-office process
before and after an RPA deployment and compare
Productivity — ​Measure the length of time human workers spent on a task
versus how quickly robots complete that same task
Quality —​ Measure output accuracy before and after RPA deployment — it
should be 100 percent after
Compliance —​ Measure compliance before and after RPA deployment — it
should be 100 percent after

Implementing RPA in Your Enterprise
What is Enterprise RPA:
Enterprise RPA is a specialist software and services business dedicated to
delivering the best Robotic Process Automation, Artificial Intelligence andDigital Assistant solutions for our customers. This allows them to devote more
time to serving customers or perform other higher-value work.

Through best practices such as creating implementation roadmaps, project
plans with cross functional dependencies, templates for documenting
automation opportunities and defining the acceptance plan for the RPA
solution being implemented, experienced resources like Baker Tilly can set
your organization up for success. This allows you to better understand the
automation technology and find additional areas of their business where this
technology can create efficiencies.
The common challenges faced by companies during RPA implementations
often seem daunting and it can be difficult to tackle these hurdles alone.

In the figure below, the horizontal axis represents the complexity and
importance of an automated process. The vertical axis shows the technical
knowledge of the people who will implement that automated process, ranging
from nontechnical business users at the bottom to very technical IT staff at the
top.
All three approaches—API-based automation, simple RPA, and enterprise
RPA—have value, and so it’s important to make good choices about which
one to use in each situation.
Business processes that are a good fit for enterprise RPA tend to have these
characteristics: The automated process needs to be scalable, reliable, secure,
and manageable. In other words, the automation must be built on a solid
technical foundation; your IT organization needs to be comfortable with it.
Automating the process has business value, but typically not enough to justify
the cost of API-based automation. As a result, the process would never rise to
the top of your IT organization’s to-do list. Even though IT must be involved,
control of the automated processes needs to remain with the business. This
might be because the process changes frequently, and involving IT in every
change would be too slow, or for some other reason. Yet once IT has laid the
groundwork, business people must be able to create and change these
process automations on their own.
8) Key Drivers of RPA in Enterprise
RPA helps companies automate a set of highly manual processes.The beauty
of RPA, and why companies like it so much, is that it enables customers tobring a level of automation to legacy processes without having to rip and
replace the legacy systems.
The ability to integrate legacy systems is the key driver for RPA projects. By
using this technology, organizations can quickly accelerate their digital
transformation initiatives, while unlocking the value associated with past
technology investments.

9) Steps to Enterprise RPA

● Project preparation. The early stage of a RPA project is a critical time.
...
● Use case identification and automation potential. Identify and
prioritize potential use cases for automation. ...
● Business case development. ...
● RPA preparation. ...
● RPA implementation.

10) List of Robotic Process Automation Tools and
Selection Checklist

Blue Prism Automation Ui Path Work Fusion
Anywhere

OpenSpan Visual Cron Synt Bots Softomotive
Leo Robotic Kofax Kapow Jidoka Jacada
Process
Automation

IPsoft FoxBots Contextor Celaton

eyeShare A2iA Arago Cicero
Automation

Criteria for selecting the right RPA tool

In order to select the best RPA tool, the necessary guidelines for choosing
the right RPA tool.

1. Ease of Implementation
2. Ease of use
3. Speed
4. Technical Features
5. Ownership Cost
6. Scalability
7. Architecture
8. Exception handling
9. Vendor support10. Governance
One should carefully consider the above criteria and even factors such as
total cost of ownership, training for employees and others before selecting
the right RPA tool for their automation. Each tool has a specific purpose
and to evaluate the full potential of an RPA tool, you will need to prioritize
one or more criteria over the others and choose the one which closely
matches your requirements.

Comparing RPA Tools
RPA Tools Comparison: UiPath vs Blue Prism vs Automation Anywhere

UIPath Blue Prism Automation Anywhere

Has Community Edition /
Free Edition
Has recently launched a
free edition.
Recently launched a
Community Edition

Most Popular Tool
Popular than
Automation Anywhere
Less Popular than others

No programming
knowledge required
It provides functionality
that allows the user to
write code, but users
can manage without it.
No programming
knowledge required

Has free online training
and certification
programs
Provides official
certification program
Recently launched a
certification of 50$.

Provides desktop, web
and Citrix automation
Designed for Citrix
automation for BPO.
Reasonable across all
mediumUnderstanding RPA Vendors
Several companies are leaders in the RPA industry. But, there are dozens
(if not hundreds) of companies that have now entered the market. Here are
the top 10 industry leaders:
1. UiPath (whose revenue grew 629 percent from 2017 to 2018)
2. Automation Anywhere, Inc.
3. Blue Prism Group
4. NICE
5. Pegasystems
6. Kofax
7. NTT-AT
8. EdgeVerve Systems
9. OpenConnect
Other RPA software vendors include the following:
● AutomationEdge
● Be Informed B.V.
● OpenSpan
● Jacada
● Kryon Systems
● Softomotive
● Ipsoft
● Another Monday
● LINX
● WinAutomationTypes of RPA Vendors
You can categorize RPA vendors in various ways. Some companies focus
specifically on RPA solutions; others are more established, having offered
other technology services before offering RPA. Here are the four main
categories:
● Established Technology Providers: These are companies that
began decades ago by offering other technology services and that
have evolved to now include RPA services.
● First Wave of RPA Vendors: These are companies that were
established in the early 2000s.
● Second Wave of RPA Vendors: These are companies that were
founded in the 2010s.
● Business Process Outsourcing Providers: These are third parties
that perform payroll, human resources, accounting, and other
such services for organizations.

RPA Case Study
These tasks can combine queries, calculations and maintenance of records
and transactions. RPA is a software program that can imitate human
actions, which are highly repetitive, rule-based manual tasks that uses
structured data.

The main goal of Robotics process automation is to replace repetitive and
boring clerical tasks performed by humans with a virtual workforce. RPA
does not require the development of code, nor does it require direct access
to the code or database of the applications.RPA can be used to automate workflow, infrastructure, back office
processes which are labor intensive. These software bots can interact with
an in-house application, website, user portal, etc. The RPA is a software
program which runs on an end user's pc, laptop or mobile device. It is a
sequence of commands which are executed by Bots under some defined
set of business rules.

RPA tools perform automation of business processes.

RPA Tools
There are 30 plus RPA tools in the market.

3 Most popular tools :
1. Automation Anywhere
2. BluePrism
3. UiPath
Automation Anywhere is most popular
UI Path there is community version which is available as free for learning
As per Forrester Wave 2017 Q1​[1]​ report, the following are the top 5 RPA
tools:

● Automation Anywhere
● UiPath
● NICE
● BluePrism
● EdgeVerve

Prerequisites to Learn RPA

● Basic Programming paradigm/ concepts(coding skills not that much needed)