Extracted text is: Installation :-

- done by installation engineers

- to install the product at a client‟s place for using after the software has been developed and tested.

For ex, consider the example of a software to be developed and installed at Reliance petrol bunk.

Maintenance :-

- here as the customer uses the product, he finds certain bugs and defects and sends the product back for
error correction and bug fixing.

- bug fixing takes place

- minor changes like adding, deleting or modifying any small feature in the software product

100 % testing is not possible – because, the way testers test the product is different from the way customers
use the product.

Service – based companies and Product – based companies

Service – based companies : -

They provide service and develop software for other companies

They provide software which is and specified as per the client company‟s requirement and never keep the
code of the developed product and does not provide the software to any other company other than the
client company.

Ex – Wipro, Infosys, TCS, Accenture

Product – based companies :-

The develop software products and sell it to many companies which may need the software and make
profits for themselves

They are the sole owners of the product they develop and the code used and sell it to other companies
which may need the software.

Ex – Oracle, Microsoft

Drawbacks of Waterfall Model :-

In waterfall model, backtracking is not possible i.e, we cannot back and change requirements once the
design stage is reached. Thus the requirements are freezed once the design of the software product is
started. Change in requirements – leads to change in design – thus bugs enter the design – which leads to
change in code which results in more bugs. Thus the requirements are freezed once the design of the
product is started.

Advantage of requirements freezing is we get a stable product because there is no change in design and
code.

3 | P a g e
Drawback of requirements freezing – the customer may not be satisfied if the changes he requires is not
incorporated in the product. The end result of waterfall model is not a flexible product.

Major drawback of waterfall model – testing is a small phase which is done after coding. Requirement is
not tested, design is not tested, if there is a bug in the requirement, it goes on till the end and leads to lot of
re-work.

Advantages of waterfall model – requirements do not change nor does design and code, so we get a stable
product.

Applications of waterfall model :-

Used in – developing a simple application

- for short term projects

- whenever we are sure that the requirements will not change

For ex, waterfall model can be used in developing a simple calculator as the functions of addition,
subtraction etc and the numbers will not change for a long time.

2 ) SPIRAL MODEL

The spiral model is shown in the figure in the next page.

Ra- requirements analysis of module A. Similarly with Rb, Rc, Rd.

Da – design of module A. Similarly with Db, Dc, Dd

Ca – coding of module A. Similarly with Cb, Cc, Cd

Ta – testing of module A. Similarly with Tb, Tc, Td

In Spiral model, the software product is developed in small modules. Let us consider the figure shown
below in developing a s/w product X. X is built by integrating A,B,C and D.

The module A – requirements of the module is collected first and then the module is designed. The coding
of module A is done after which it is tested for defects and bugs.

The module B – once module A has been built, we start the same process for module B. But while testing
module B, we test for 3 conditions – a)test module B b)test integration of module B with A c)test module A.

The module C – after building module A,B, we start the same process for module C. Here we test for the
following conditions – 1) test module c, b, a 2) test for integration of C and B, C and A, A and B.

And thus the cycle continues for different modules. Thus in the above example, module B can be built only
after module A has been built correctly and similarly for module C.

4 | P a g e
